hello and welcome to another video in
the series learning to drive with Gary
Phillips in this video we're going to
look at emerging right at T junctions if
you've not seen the emerging left video
yet look at that one first because it
will help when we come to a t-junction
we need to recognize it first of all
look for signs and markings or if there
aren't innate you can tell me coming to
the end of the road so you know it's
going to be an image you would go
through your routine msps El Sol of
mirrors interior and right signal
consider the time of the signal position
just to the left of center if it's safe
to do that occasionally if there's
parked cars on the right here it
wouldn't be safe to get as close so
consider whether it's going to obstruct
anybody if you do position over there
but if it's clear left of center
position and that allows of the traffic
room to get through and turn left speed
that needs to be in relation to what
vision you've got so if it's an open
junction then we can perhaps get second
gear and continuous is clear but
generally speaking if we're going to
emerge it's going to be a closed
junction and therefore we'd need a first
gear and we'd need to pause at the
junction itself so what imagine this
time it's a closed chain from the can't
see through these bushes and we're going
to pause at the end so slowed down the
clutch goes down about two to three
counts before the end and the earlier
than that would be coasting for too long
which would cause the car to maybe speed
up and he wouldn't be under as much
control so close down about two to three
cards before the end and slip into first
gear just before we get to the giveaway
lines we can judge the giveaway line
position under the mirror member so if
you look underneath them or at the
giveaway line should look as though it's
just underneath a mirror when your front
end is at that line and not over it you
would also keep your wheel straight for
emerging right not like when we went
left we follow the curb round in this
case we're gonna keep the wheel straight
because we want to stay to the left of
that center line if we were to steer
right a little bit
it would obstruct traffic that might be
turning in from the right or the left
and make the road a bit narrower so keep
you real straight
you'd be looking right as usual on
approach always look right first for the
oncoming traffic that's on your side and
then you were looking left we're looking
for gaps in the traffic on both sides
where we're not going to make anybody
stop slow or swerve
once you've seen a suitable gap then we
can emerge as you emerge you can start
to steer straight away and try and look
at your position that you want to be in
on the new road and aim for there
because your hands are going to follow
your eyes so if you look at the position
you want to be in the steering should
follow into that position once you've
emerged and you're straightened up then
we'll check the mirrors interior and
right we're looking for anybody again
that might be going faster from behind
and we wouldn't want to slow them down
so if you see somebody catching you up
you can increase your speed to the speed
limit on the road if it's safe to do
that signal counselor signal if it's not
going off and maneuver to maneuver to
increase your speed also consider
pedestrians if pedestrians are walking
across just like with the last emerge we
would give way to them if they've
already started to cross as we're
approaching if as we're coming down to
the junction there stood there waiting
then go to the give a lines and use it
they'll walk behind you you wouldn't
beckon anybody because somebody else
might this car here might be turning in
you backing them across and that car
might not see the power strip pedestrian
might not see that car and they walk out
and get run over so no back in anybody
to cross the road so that's
approximately merging right hopefully
that's been helpful see you next time